README.md, before:

# MarketAds BigQuery-Native Record Matching System

A high-performance, SQL-based record matching and entity resolution system designed specifically for Google BigQuery and Dataform environments. This system enables efficient and accurate matching of records across different data sources using native BigQuery SQL capabilities.

## Overview

The MarketAds BigQuery Matching System is designed to handle large-scale record matching and entity resolution tasks within the Google Cloud ecosystem. By leveraging BigQuery's powerful SQL engine, the system provides:

- Fast similarity calculations for record comparison
- Multiple blocking strategies for performance optimization
- Phonetic matching algorithms for name and text comparison
- Address standardization for improved matching accuracy
- Configurable matching pipelines with weighting and thresholds

## Key Features

### SQL-Native Implementation
- **100% BigQuery SQL**: All matching logic implemented using native BigQuery SQL
- **Dataform Integration**: Purpose-built for the Dataform workflow environment
- **High Performance**: Efficiently processes millions of records using BigQuery's distributed computing

### String Similarity Methods
- **Levenshtein Distance**: Normalized edit distance calculation
- **Token-Based Similarity**: Word and character n-gram similarity measures
- **Equality Matching**: Exact matching with standardization
- **Partial Matching**: Contains and prefix-based matching

### Phonetic Algorithms
- **Soundex**: Native BigQuery implementation
- **Metaphone**: Custom SQL implementation
- **Double Metaphone**: Simplified implementation in SQL
- **NYSIIS**: New York State Identification and Intelligence System algorithm

### Address Standardization
- **Street Type Normalization**: Standardizes "Street" to "St", "Avenue" to "Ave", etc.
- **Directional Standardization**: Normalizes "North" to "N", "Southwest" to "SW", etc.
- **Whitespace Cleaning**: Standardizes whitespace and special characters

### Blocking Strategies
- **Multiple Key Types**: Email domain, name prefix, ZIP code, phone digits, etc.
- **Phonetic Blocking**: Sound-based blocking for names
- **Composite Keys**: Combines multiple fields for more specific blocking
- **Performance Optimization**: Drastically reduces comparison matrix size

### Complete Matching Pipeline
- **Field Mapping**: Maps fields between different sources
- **Confidence Scoring**: Weighted similarity scores
- **Match Classification**: Categorizes matches into tiers (HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)
- **Flexible Configuration**: Customizable thresholds and weights

## Usage Examples

The system includes several examples that demonstrate different matching scenarios:

### Basic Name Matching

```sql
-- From definitions/matching/name_matching.sqlx
-- Matches customers across different data sources using name and contact info
config {
  type: "table",
  name: "matched_customers",
  description: "Matches customer records across source and target tables"
}

js {
  const { generateMatchingPipeline } = require("../includes/sql/similarity_functions");
  
  // Define field mappings with weights
  const fieldMappings = [
    {
      sourceField: "first_name",
      targetField: "firstname",
      type: "firstName",
      weight: 1.5
    },
    // Additional fields...
  ];
  
  // Return matching SQL
  return generateMatchingPipeline(
    "source_customers", 
    "target_customers", 
    fieldMappings
  );
}
```

### Address Matching with Standardization

```sql
-- From definitions/matching/address_matching.sqlx
-- Standardizes addresses before matching
WITH standardized_source AS (
  SELECT
    id,
    ${standardizeAddressSql('address_line1')} AS std_address,
    -- Other fields...
  FROM source_customers
)

-- Then perform matching on standardized addresses
```

### Efficient Blocking for Large Datasets

```sql
-- From definitions/matching/blocking_keys.sqlx
-- Creates multiple blocking keys for efficient matching

-- Standard blocking keys based on direct field values
WITH standard_blocking_keys AS (
  -- Various blocking strategies
),

-- Advanced phonetic blocking for names
phonetic_blocking_keys AS (
  -- Soundex, Metaphone, etc.
)

-- Combine all blocking keys
SELECT * FROM standard_blocking_keys
UNION ALL
SELECT * FROM phonetic_blocking_keys
```

## System Architecture

The system is organized into modular JavaScript files that generate SQL:

1. **`includes/sql/similarity_functions.js`**: Core string similarity functions
2. **`includes/sql/phonetic_functions.js`**: Phonetic algorithm implementations
3. **`definitions/matching/*.sqlx`**: Dataform SQL definitions that use the functions

## Performance Considerations

- **Blocking**: Always use appropriate blocking strategies for large datasets
- **Indexes**: Ensure that blocking key columns are properly indexed
- **Partitioning**: Consider partitioning tables by blocking keys
- **Threshold Tuning**: Adjust confidence thresholds based on your data quality

## Getting Started

1. **Setup Dataform**: Ensure your Dataform project is configured for BigQuery
2. **Copy Implementation Files**: Add the SQL utility files to your includes directory
3. **Create Matching Definitions**: Define your matching queries in `.sqlx` files
4. **Configure Field Mappings**: Map fields between your source and target tables
5. **Execute**: Run the Dataform workflow to perform matching

## Configuration Options

The matching pipeline supports various configuration options:

```javascript
const matchOptions = {
  // Match quality thresholds
  thresholds: {
    high: 0.85,   // High confidence matches (85%+)
    medium: 0.65, // Medium confidence matches (65-85%)
    low: 0.45     // Low confidence matches (45-65%)
  },
  
  // Blocking configuration for performance
  blocking: {
    field: {
      source: "email",
      target: "email_address"
    },
    method: "email_domain"
  }
};
```

## Semantic Type Mapping

The system utilizes semantic type mapping to improve the accuracy and relevance of record matching. Semantic types allow the system to understand the meaning of data fields, not just their names, and apply appropriate matching logic.

### Semantic Type Map (`includes/semantic_types.js`)

The `semanticTypeMap` is defined in `includes/semantic_types.js` as a JavaScript object. It maps semantic types (keys) to an array of possible column names (values).

```javascript
// Example: includes/semantic_types.js
const semanticTypeMap = {
  email: ["email", "email_address", "emailAddress", "e_mail"],
  firstName: ["firstName", "first_name", "personfirstname", "fname"],
  lastName: ["lastName", "last_name", "personlastname", "lname"],
  // ... other semantic types
};

module.exports = { semanticTypeMap };
```

### Usage in Matching Functions

Matching functions in `includes/matching_functions.js` and `includes/rule_engine.js` use this map to:

1. **Identify Semantic Type**: Determine the semantic type of each column being compared.
2. **Apply Type-Aware Logic**: Conditionally apply matching logic based on semantic types. For example, columns of the same semantic type (e.g., two email fields) might use more aggressive matching techniques than columns of different semantic types.

### Extending Semantic Types

To extend the semantic type mapping:

1. **Open `includes/semantic_types.js`**.
2. **Add New Types**: Add new key-value pairs to the `semanticTypeMap` object.
  - The **key** should be a unique semantic type identifier (e.g., `city`, `phoneNumber`).
  - The **value** should be an array of strings representing common column names associated with that semantic type.
3. **Update Matching Functions**: Modify matching functions to utilize the new semantic types in their logic.

By leveraging semantic type mapping, the system can intelligently adapt its matching strategies based on the meaning of the data fields, leading to more accurate and contextually relevant match results.

## License

This project is proprietary and confidential to MarketAds. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

Add ESLint Configuration and Regex Fixing Script
This commit introduces an ESLint configuration file and a script for fixing Python-style raw string patterns in JavaScript files:

- Added `.eslintrc.js` to enforce coding standards, including a custom rule to flag invalid Python-style raw string notation (r'...') in JavaScript.
- Created `fix_regex_patterns.js` script to search for and replace Python-style raw string patterns with standard JavaScript string literals in specified files.
- Updated `README.md` to include new SQL generation standards, emphasizing the avoidance of Python-style raw string notation and documenting the custom ESLint rule.
- Enhanced test reporting in `test-report.html` to reflect the latest test results.

These changes aim to improve code quality and maintainability by enforcing consistent coding practices and providing tools for correcting common regex issues in the codebase.

README.md, after:

# MarketAds BigQuery-Native Record Matching System

A high-performance, SQL-based record matching and entity resolution system designed specifically for Google BigQuery and Dataform environments. This system enables efficient and accurate matching of records across different data sources using native BigQuery SQL capabilities.

## Overview

The MarketAds BigQuery Matching System is designed to handle large-scale record matching and entity resolution tasks within the Google Cloud ecosystem. By leveraging BigQuery's powerful SQL engine, the system provides:

- Fast similarity calculations for record comparison
- Multiple blocking strategies for performance optimization
- Phonetic matching algorithms for name and text comparison
- Address standardization for improved matching accuracy
- Configurable matching pipelines with weighting and thresholds

## Key Features

### SQL-Native Implementation
- **100% BigQuery SQL**: All matching logic implemented using native BigQuery SQL
- **Dataform Integration**: Purpose-built for the Dataform workflow environment
- **High Performance**: Efficiently processes millions of records using BigQuery's distributed computing

### String Similarity Methods
- **Levenshtein Distance**: Normalized edit distance calculation
- **Token-Based Similarity**: Word and character n-gram similarity measures
- **Equality Matching**: Exact matching with standardization
- **Partial Matching**: Contains and prefix-based matching

### Phonetic Algorithms
- **Soundex**: Native BigQuery implementation
- **Metaphone**: Custom SQL implementation
- **Double Metaphone**: Simplified implementation in SQL
- **NYSIIS**: New York State Identification and Intelligence System algorithm

### Address Standardization
- **Street Type Normalization**: Standardizes "Street" to "St", "Avenue" to "Ave", etc.
- **Directional Standardization**: Normalizes "North" to "N", "Southwest" to "SW", etc.
- **Whitespace Cleaning**: Standardizes whitespace and special characters

### Blocking Strategies
- **Multiple Key Types**: Email domain, name prefix, ZIP code, phone digits, etc.
- **Phonetic Blocking**: Sound-based blocking for names
- **Composite Keys**: Combines multiple fields for more specific blocking
- **Performance Optimization**: Drastically reduces comparison matrix size

### Complete Matching Pipeline
- **Field Mapping**: Maps fields between different sources
- **Confidence Scoring**: Weighted similarity scores
- **Match Classification**: Categorizes matches into tiers (HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)
- **Flexible Configuration**: Customizable thresholds and weights

## Usage Examples

The system includes several examples that demonstrate different matching scenarios:

### Basic Name Matching

```sql
-- From definitions/matching/name_matching.sqlx
-- Matches customers across different data sources using name and contact info
config {
  type: "table",
  name: "matched_customers",
  description: "Matches customer records across source and target tables"
}

js {
  const { generateMatchingPipeline } = require("../includes/sql/similarity_functions");
  
  // Define field mappings with weights
  const fieldMappings = [
    {
      sourceField: "first_name",
      targetField: "firstname",
      type: "firstName",
      weight: 1.5
    },
    // Additional fields...
  ];
  
  // Return matching SQL
  return generateMatchingPipeline(
    "source_customers", 
    "target_customers", 
    fieldMappings
  );
}
```

### Address Matching with Standardization

```sql
-- From definitions/matching/address_matching.sqlx
-- Standardizes addresses before matching
WITH standardized_source AS (
  SELECT
    id,
    ${standardizeAddressSql('address_line1')} AS std_address,
    -- Other fields...
  FROM source_customers
)

-- Then perform matching on standardized addresses
```

### Efficient Blocking for Large Datasets

```sql
-- From definitions/matching/blocking_keys.sqlx
-- Creates multiple blocking keys for efficient matching

-- Standard blocking keys based on direct field values
WITH standard_blocking_keys AS (
  -- Various blocking strategies
),

-- Advanced phonetic blocking for names
phonetic_blocking_keys AS (
  -- Soundex, Metaphone, etc.
)

-- Combine all blocking keys
SELECT * FROM standard_blocking_keys
UNION ALL
SELECT * FROM phonetic_blocking_keys
```

## System Architecture

The system is organized into modular JavaScript files that generate SQL:

1. **`includes/sql/similarity_functions.js`**: Core string similarity functions
2. **`includes/sql/phonetic_functions.js`**: Phonetic algorithm implementations
3. **`definitions/matching/*.sqlx`**: Dataform SQL definitions that use the functions

## Performance Considerations

- **Blocking**: Always use appropriate blocking strategies for large datasets
- **Indexes**: Ensure that blocking key columns are properly indexed
- **Partitioning**: Consider partitioning tables by blocking keys
- **Threshold Tuning**: Adjust confidence thresholds based on your data quality

## Getting Started

1. **Setup Dataform**: Ensure your Dataform project is configured for BigQuery
2. **Copy Implementation Files**: Add the SQL utility files to your includes directory
3. **Create Matching Definitions**: Define your matching queries in `.sqlx` files
4. **Configure Field Mappings**: Map fields between your source and target tables
5. **Execute**: Run the Dataform workflow to perform matching

## Configuration Options

The matching pipeline supports various configuration options:

```javascript
const matchOptions = {
  // Match quality thresholds
  thresholds: {
    high: 0.85,   // High confidence matches (85%+)
    medium: 0.65, // Medium confidence matches (65-85%)
    low: 0.45     // Low confidence matches (45-65%)
  },
  
  // Blocking configuration for performance
  blocking: {
    field: {
      source: "email",
      target: "email_address"
    },
    method: "email_domain"
  }
};
```

## Semantic Type Mapping

The system utilizes semantic type mapping to improve the accuracy and relevance of record matching. Semantic types allow the system to understand the meaning of data fields, not just their names, and apply appropriate matching logic.

### Semantic Type Map (`includes/semantic_types.js`)

The `semanticTypeMap` is defined in `includes/semantic_types.js` as a JavaScript object. It maps semantic types (keys) to an array of possible column names (values).

```javascript
// Example: includes/semantic_types.js
const semanticTypeMap = {
  email: ["email", "email_address", "emailAddress", "e_mail"],
  firstName: ["firstName", "first_name", "personfirstname", "fname"],
  lastName: ["lastName", "last_name", "personlastname", "lname"],
  // ... other semantic types
};

module.exports = { semanticTypeMap };
```

### Usage in Matching Functions

Matching functions in `includes/matching_functions.js` and `includes/rule_engine.js` use this map to:

1. **Identify Semantic Type**: Determine the semantic type of each column being compared.
2. **Apply Type-Aware Logic**: Conditionally apply matching logic based on semantic types. For example, columns of the same semantic type (e.g., two email fields) might use more aggressive matching techniques than columns of different semantic types.

### Extending Semantic Types

To extend the semantic type mapping:

1. **Open `includes/semantic_types.js`**.
2. **Add New Types**: Add new key-value pairs to the `semanticTypeMap` object.
  - The **key** should be a unique semantic type identifier (e.g., `city`, `phoneNumber`).
  - The **value** should be an array of strings representing common column names associated with that semantic type.
3. **Update Matching Functions**: Modify matching functions to utilize the new semantic types in their logic.

By leveraging semantic type mapping, the system can intelligently adapt its matching strategies based on the meaning of the data fields, leading to more accurate and contextually relevant match results.

## SQL Generation Standards

To ensure consistency and prevent common errors in SQL generation, the project includes a comprehensive set of standards and practices documented in `docs/SQL_GENERATION_STANDARDS.md`. These standards cover:

### JavaScript Regex Patterns

- Proper syntax for regular expressions in JavaScript when generating SQL
- Avoiding Python-style raw string notation (r'pattern') which is invalid in JavaScript
- Correct escaping of special characters in regex patterns

### SQL String Generation Best Practices

- Using template literals for readability
- Handling NULL values defensively
- Preventing SQL injection
- Consistent naming conventions

### Testing

The project includes dedicated tests (`tests/unit/regex_pattern_tests.js`) to verify proper regex pattern handling across SQL generation functions. These tests ensure:

- No Python-style raw string notation is used
- Proper formation of REGEXP_REPLACE calls
- Consistent abbreviations in standardized addresses

### ESLint Rules

A custom ESLint rule (`no-regex-r-prefix`) automatically detects and flags Python-style regex patterns in JavaScript code, preventing these errors from being introduced in the future.

## License

This project is proprietary and confidential to MarketAds. All rights reserved.
